---
layout: postpage
readtime: '5 min'
title: "Science Beyond the Lab: My 'AHA' Moment of April 2023"
date: 2023-05-04
---

<span class="dropcap">T</span>he scientific community is constantly evolving and growing, 
and it is essential to stay up to date with the latest developments, gain new insights, and share experiences. 
Workshops and networking events are key ways to achieve these goals.
As someone who has had the opportunity to co-organize a workshop in Finland (see <a href='https://carolin-m.github.io/blog/ESTML2023/'> here</a>), 
I can attest to the value of these events firsthand.


Our workshop brought together researchers and professionals from three renowned research groups, namely Alexandre Tkatchenko (University of Luxembourg), 
Patrick Rinke (Aalto University), and Milica Todorović (University of Turku).
In total, all 30 participants shared their experiences, present their work, and engage in discussions on our workshop topic, which was <b>electronic structure theory and machine learning</b> (ESTML). 
It was a fantastic opportunity to build relationships with peers and gain new insights from experts in the field. 

Herein, I want to provide some tips for networking, that helped me when organizing workshops and networking events 
in order to promote collaboration, advance research, and foster a stronger, more connected scientific community.

<center>
<p align=center>
<table>
    <tr> </tr>
<tr>
  <td width="35"> 
      1
  </td>
    <td width="450"> 
        <font size="+2">
            <b><p>Crafting Your Elevator Pitch: How to Make a Quick Connection 🛗 </p></b>
        </font>
        <br>
<p>Before attending a networking event, prepare a short pitch about yourself, your research interests, and goals. 
It is essential to have a concise and clear pitch that can grab people's attention and leave a positive impression. </p>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td width="35"> 
      2
  </td>
  <td width="450"> 
      <font size="+2">
          <b><p>The Power of Positivity: Approaching Networking with an Open Mind 🙂 </p></b>
      </font>
      <br>
  <p>Approach networking with an open mind and a positive attitude. 
Be approachable and smile, introduce yourself to others and initiate conversations. </p>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td width="35"> 
      3
  </td>
  <td width="450"> 
      <font size="+2"> 
          <b><p>Beyond Business Cards: How to Follow Up 📫 </p></b>
      </font>
      <br>
  <p>After meeting someone at a networking event, it is crucial to follow up with them. 
Send them an email, connect with them on LinkedIn, or invite them to your lab. 
Following up shows that you are interested in maintaining the relationship and 
can lead to further collaborations and opportunities.</p>
  </td>
</tr>
</table>
</p>
</center>

<b> 👩‍🔬 Science Beyond the Lab: The Importance of Professional Networking in Research <b>
